# Lie-Detector-Algorithm-Project
Engineering 101 (Fall 2019) Project 2

# Introduction
Data from a lie detector was provided that included values from the upper pneumograph, lower pneumograph, movement, cardio, and EDA sensors from a particular test subject. This data was used to create an algorithm to determine whether the test subject was lying or not. By creating an algorithm, the data was translated to accurately determine if deception was occurring.

Initially, information was gathered on the history of the polygraph machine, previous and current research, reliability and effectiveness of the device, and alternatives to the lie detector. This background research provided adequate information on the polygraph test in order to better understand the given data. This data was then analyzed and compared to the control. Following the data analysis, potential improvements to the sensor package were evaluated along with determining the cost-effectiveness of the new design. The underlying need met was to analyze whether or not deception was occurring while questioning the subject. This research also proposed advancements to the polygraph machine that would help increase the reliability of results and effectiveness of the test in general, especially while keeping the cost at a reasonable price.

# 1.1 Problem Statement
The goal of the project was to create a reliable algorithm or logical method which would accurately determine whether a subject was lying or not based on certain parameters given from a previous lie detector test. In order to do so, the data had to be effectively analyzed and interpreted. The major problems of the project not only included executing effective data analysis, but also evaluating possible improvements that would increase the reliability of a lie detector test. Overarching issues included suggesting improvements to the device or algorithm and analyzing the cost of the lie detector as well.

There were several major objectives there were accomplished by conducting this research. The first objective was to conduct sufficient background research to better understand the reliability and effectiveness of the lie detector test. The next objective was to develop an algorithm that would determine if deception was occurring or not by analyzing the given physiological responses of a particular test subject. The third objective was to evaluate potential sensor improvements based on the accuracy of the developed algorithm to further enhance reliability. Lastly, the cost analysis of the improved device also had to be determined.
